Dazza Greenwood, JD
Bio and Contact Information

CIVICS.com Direct Consultancy
  Role: Founder, Boutique Professional Services Firm
  Focus: Integrated Business, Legal and Technical Solutions
  Contact: http://CIVICS.com/contact

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
  Role: Scientist, MIT Media Lab and Connection Science
  Focus: Applied Computational Law
  Contact: https://Law.MIT.edu/contact


Short Bio

(Daniel) Dazza Greenwood is an entrepreneur, innovator and national thought on design and deployment of scalable, distributed Trust Network and other digital systems. Dazza heads the digital business systems design and architecture firm CIVICS.com, which he founded in 1996. At MIT Media Lab and MIT Connection Science, Dazza lecturers and conducts R&D on big data, digital identity federation, personal data sharing and is developing the field of computational law and jurimetrics through law.MIT.edu events and projects. Privately, Dazza provides professional consultancy services to industry, government and civic organizations, including fortune 50 companies, national governments, and marketplaces through CIVICS.com. Dazza has catalyzed or led numerous industry, governmental and public-private initiatives aimed at developing innovative legal solutions, technical standards and business models.

Current and Recent Projects and Activities

Entrepreneurship and Innovation:

Dazza serves on the Data Advisory Board of and actively consults for a fortune 50 company, advising on a variety of big data, privacy and fair value exchange matters, including integrated business, legal and technical solutions for managing individual re-identification risks in anonymized big data analytics shared with external parties.  Currently Dazza is prototyping Trust Network system models and reference implementations for integrated business, legal and technical rules based systems for user-centered personal data & identity management.   Dazza is also promoting a new national consensus on publishing public law as free open data in standard formats that are human readable, machine readable and lawyer readable. Dazza is developing a large-scale online “hackathon” collaborative platform and service enabling distributed networks of individuals, teams and multi-venue events to form around innovative projects, shared interests and competitive challenges. Dazza is also advancing modernization of law through development of new business models, innovative solutions for contract and regulatory automation and testing new methods to write, apply and measure law and regulation as computational data sciences.

Public Policy and Strategy and Roadmaps:

In 2015, Dazza has worked on information age strategy, policy and roadmaps at the state and city levels. Dazza has actively provided facilitation and drafting support for the City of Boston’s CIO leading to formal promulgation of the "Open and Protected Data Sharing Executive Order" by the Mayor of Boston and the subsequent "Open and Protected Data Sharing Policy" by Boston's CIO.  This novel policy provides a unified approach to data management for both open data and legally protected data, including Identity and Authorization Management.  This executive order and policy was created in close collaboration with the several key City of Boston's legal counsel, the Mayor’s Office of New Urban Mechanics and the City’s Principal Data Scientist, among other municipal leaders and external stakeholders. Under the Commonwealth of Massachusetts CIO, Dazza provided support for development of statewide strategy and roadmaps for both Data Management for Identity Management, to treat data as an important new asset class for better government.  The statewide identity work aimed to forge a balanced approach intended to enhance privacy and user-centered federated methods for users and organizations to maintain and control their own identity credentials.

More Detailed Bio

“Dazza” Greenwood heads CIVICS.com, a boutique provider of professional consultancy services. Engagements are tailored to purpose and leverage innovative solutions for digital identity, data strategy and technology policy. At MIT Dazza has held academic appointments as Visiting Scholar, Lecturer and (currently) Scientist. At the MIT Media Lab Dazza focuses on law, technology and innovation with emphasis on big data, identity federation, personal data sharing and systems design shared publicly through the law.MIT.edu. Dazza consults to fortune 100 companies, including the insurance industry and financial services sector, architecting the creation of trust networks. As an attorney, Dazza served as both general and special counsel for technology law, representing corporations and governments and as intellectual property litigation expert.

Federally, Dazza has testified several times on eCommerce before the US House and US Senate and other legislatures and has consulted to NASA as an Online Identity expert, GSA as a multilateral rules drafting expert, Homeland Security as a multistate federated governance expert, the UK Cabinet Office GDS facilitating and authoring identity federation rules and many other public and private sector organizations.

Dazza was elected as Vice Chair of the Identity Ecosystem Steering Group’s Plenary, which is developing a framework for federated identity and privacy at the international level, implementing NSTIC. Dazza Chairs the Forum on Law of Identity and Personal Data of the ID Commons. Dazza chaired the eContracts Committee of OASIS/LegalXML, which approved and published the Technical Committee Specification for eContracts in 2007.

Dazza served as an arbitrator under the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), where he arbitrated Internet domain name and trademark disputes. Mr. Greenwood has successfully mediated several domain name and other disputes. Mr Greenwood created legal processes for online mediation used by eBay and other online dispute resolution providers, crafted the first crowd-sourced dispute resolution process and vice chaired of the OASIS Online Dispute Resolution technical specifications committee.
